Toevoegen RAR stukken aan OAuth NL Gov (#85)
Geonovum/KP-APIs-OAuthNL: Advanced OAuth Security Options.md

</aside>
<!-- iGov-NL : End of the additional content -->

<!-- iGov-NL : Start of the additional content -->
## Rich Authorization Requests

<aside class=" addition">
<b>iGov-NL : Additional content</b></br>  

[[[RFC9396]]] is an extension that provides a way for clients to request and obtain fine-grained authorization from resource owners such as end users during the Authorization Code Flow.

> In traditional OAuth flows, clients typically request access to a set of scopes from a Resource Server. The Resource Owner then grants access to the resources to the client. However, this approach does not allow for granular control over the access granted to a client and can lead to over-provisioning of access, which poses various security risks. With RAR, clients can pass an `authorization_details` claim to request specific permissions for each individual resource they want to access. It also allows for the Resource Server to implement specific business logic to deal with special types of requests. Think of one-time payments or step-up multi-factor authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In traditional OAuth flows, clients typically request access to a set of scopes from a Resource Server. The Resource Owner then grants access to the resources to the client. However, this approach does not allow for granular control over the access granted to a client and can lead to over-provisioning of access, which poses various security risks. With RAR, clients can pass an `authorization_details` claim to request specific permissions for each individual resource they want to access. It also allows for the Resource Server to implement specific business logic to deal with special types of requests. Think of one-time payment approvals, explicit transaction confirmations or step-up multi-factor authentication.
```

> In traditional OAuth flows, clients typically request access to a set of scopes from a Resource Server. The Resource Owner then grants access to the resources to the client. However, this approach does not allow for granular control over the access granted to a client and can lead to over-provisioning of access, which poses various security risks. With RAR, clients can pass an `authorization_details` claim to request specific permissions for each individual resource they want to access. It also allows for the Resource Server to implement specific business logic to deal with special types of requests. Think of one-time payments or step-up multi-factor authentication.

Reviewer 2: De huidige tekst lijkt zich te richten op RAR voor het authenticeren van specifieke individuele verzoeken.

Volgens mij kunnen `authorization_details` ook tijdens de gebruikelijke login gebruikt worden om 'fi*ner* grained' authorisatie instructies te geven dan alleen scopes toestaan.

Ik denk dat onderstaande aanpassingen dat iets beter weer zou geven.

```suggestion
In traditional OAuth flows, clients typically request access to a set of scopes from a Resource Server. The Resource Owner then grants access to the resources to the client. However, this approach allows limited granular control over the access granted to a client and can lead to over-provisioning of access, which poses various security risks. With RAR, clients can pass an `authorization_details` claim with additional details that allow for more fine-grained authorization. This also allows for the Resource Server to implement fine-grained authorization for specific requests. Think of one-time payment approvals, explicit transaction confirmations or step-up multi-factor authentication.
```

Reviewer 3: "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" [[RFC6749](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396.html#RFC6749)] defines the scope parameter that allows OAuth clients to specify the requested scope, i.e., the limited capability, of an access token. This mechanism is sufficient to implement static scenarios and coarse-grained authorization requests, such as "give me read access to the resource owner's profile." However, it is not sufficient to specify fine-grained authorization requirements, such as "please let me transfer an amount of 45 Euros to Merchant A" or "please give me read access to directory A and write access to file X."

According to the RFC, `authorization_details` requires just one field, `type`, which determines the allowable contents of the `authorization_details`. The value is unique for the described API in the context of the Authorization Server. 

> The RFC suggests to suppport `locations`, `datatypes`, `identifier` and `privileges` as common fields in the `authorization_details` parameter.

Reviewer: Dit lijkt me nog te vaag, is dit een goede verbetering?
```suggestion
In line with the RFC suggestion, the Resource Server SHOULD suppport `locations`, `datatypes`, `identifier` and `privileges` as common fields in the `authorization_details` parameter.
```

Reviewer 3: > Dit lijkt me nog te vaag, is dit een goede verbetering?

Nee ik denk dat SHOULD te sterk is in dit geval. Daarnaast lijkt het mij in dit geval niet handig om eisen (SHOULD of MAY) toe te voegen die niet in de RFC zelf staan. Lijkt mij beter om de tekst uit de RFC aan te houden, dan zelf bijv. MAY toe te voegen. 

Daarnaast zouden we kunnen toevoegen:

_In case of authorization requests as defined in [[RFC6749](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396.html#RFC6749)], implementers MAY consider using pushed authorization requests [[RFC9126](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396.html#RFC9126)] to improve the security, privacy, and reliability of the flow_

Reviewer 3: Think of one-time payment approvals, document signing or requesting or approving (access to a) specific cases or documents.

Author: ```suggestion
The underlying RFC defines a set of common data fields that are designed to be usable across different types of APIs. Fields like `locations`, `datatypes`, `identifier` and `privileges` can be added in the `authorization_details` parameter.
```

> </aside>

Reviewer 2: Kunnen we hier ook nog een verwijzing opnemen naar AuthZEN? Iets als 
```suggestion

In case more data or more recent data is required for fine-grained authorization than is practical to include in `authorization_details` the OpenID AuthZEN standard MAY be used.
</aside>
```
